---
title:       "Soothsayer 0.2 released"
type:        story
date:        2007-07-07
changed:     2007-07-28
draft:       false
promote:     false
sticky:      false
url:         /node/23
aliases:     [ node/23 ]
sections:    [ "news" ]

# Summary:
# Soothsayer 0.2 is now available for <a href="?q=node/16">download</a>.
# 
# Soothsayer 0.2 adds support for SQLite 2.x and SQLite 3.x. The soothsayer build system will autodetect which SQLite version is available and use the most recent version.
# 
# This release also includes bug fixes and improvements to the command line utilities and demo programs. Please consult the ChangeLog for more details.
# 
# Soothsayer 0.2 is a developer's preview release. This is a source release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.
# 
# 

---
Soothsayer 0.2 is now available for <a href="?q=node/16">download</a>.

Soothsayer 0.2 adds support for SQLite 2.x and SQLite 3.x. The soothsayer build system will autodetect which SQLite version is available and use the most recent version.

This release also includes bug fixes and improvements to the command line utilities and demo programs. Please consult the ChangeLog for more details.

Soothsayer 0.2 is a developer's preview release. This is a source release only. No precompiled packages or installers are provided.


<!--more-->
<!--break-->

Users wishing to try Soothsayer out will need to follow the (easy) steps required to build soothsayer on their machine, as detailed in the README file. Please note that <a href="?q=node/17">SQLite</a> is required to build soothsayer. <a href="?q=node/17">CPPUnit</a> is optional, but no unit tests will be built when running `make check', unless CPPUnit is installed.

Soothsayer 0.2 has been built and tested on various Linux platforms (including 64 bit architectures) and Windows XP + Cygwin platform. If you encounter any issues while building or running soothsayer, please report it to the <a href="?q=node/19">author</a>.

There is still a lot of work to be done. Currently, the build process trains Soothsayer predictive plugin with a very limited training corpus (a single book).
Predictive performance can be greatly increased by using a larger training corpus. Users can easily generate predictive resources using a custom text corpus and the extraction tools provided.
Currently, only one predictive plugin is provided, a smoothed n-gram predictive plugin. The plugin should be extended to be able to support n-grams of any cardinality. More plugins should also be added to take advantage of the multiple predictive source architecture.
There is also more work to be done on various modules, including the combiner module and the configuration module.
Please refer to our TODO list for more details on what needs to be done.
